The Headlines:
No smartphones?
No problem as taxi drivers
re-define cool.
Made by a Singaporean?
No thanks,
as local designers
bear the brunt of globalisation.
Dragons and goats are so last century.
Introducing the hipster zodiac.
Hello and welcome to The Noose.
I am B.B.See…
And I’m Xin Hua Hua.
Hey, ladies,
life without you
is a like broken pencil…
-pointless.
-You are pointless.
Topping the Noose tonight…
yet another variant of taxi service
has entered the saturated
market in Singapore.
A group of local cabbies,
who have been dubbed
“The Un-smart Uncles”,
are now providing a new
niche taxi service
that is increasingly garnering
a cult following
since starting 2 weeks ago.
Here’s Jojo Joget with the story.
Yet another variant of taxi service
has entered the saturated
market in Singapore.
A group of local cabbies,
who have been dubbed
“The Un-smart Uncles”,
are now providing a niche taxi service
that is increasingly
garnering a cult following
since starting 2 weeks ago.
The service, which has sparked a larger
anti-smartphone lifestyle movement,
offers customers an immersive vintage
and all-around nostalgic
cab-securing experience.
It was the brainchild of local cabbie,
Nicholas Le Fong, and friends
and some friends
who found themselves
at the shorter end of the stick
as non-smartphone-owning taxi drivers.
Actually,
I’ve considered getting
a smartphone for a long time,
but my wife don’t let me
get the smartphone
because she is scared
I go online and start gambling.
But I tell you, one main reason
that I want to get a smartphone
is because I am always
losing out to all these apps:
Grab, Uber, Graber...don’t know ah.
So many of my friends also
don't have smartphones
because we all have cock-up fingers,
some of us the fingers too fat,
some too skinny,
some the finger always shaking.
We are all old-school chaps
and many of us out there
are losing out because
of this thing, you know.
So one day, I sat down
with my friends, drinking coffee,
we talked about this thing.
We said enough is enough.
We cannot be penalised
just because of our cock-up fingers.
People use all these apps because
they want make a statement,
trying to act cool only,
it’s usually not even cheaper!
So we thought to ourselves,
we must start our own lifestyle brand,
come up with our own pattern!
I show you.
You see?
Nicholas Le Fong and his friends
then started to display their
phone numbers at the back of their cabs
so that customers could personally
call and book them.
This practice grew popular amongst
non-smartphone-using cabbies
and became a big hit with local
hipster millennials
who are relishing the new
“alternative” cab-securing trend.
You see, whenever I make a phone call,
it is really just to hear this tone.
It’s so good, right?
This waiting process is all part of the
experience, you understand.
I love it.
You see,
my friends and I are really into
this “farm-to-table” cabbie concept,
through all this minimal processing
of phone apps and whatnot.
It is a very down-to-earth and
personal approach
that really brings me back to a time
when life was much more relaxed
and down-to-earth.
The movement has even inspired
many followers of the movement
to give up their smartphones for simpler,
more retro 7/11 prepaid phones.
There are also plans to call out
new service features,
such as taxi booking via pagers
for VIP customers
and reserved spots on pavements
for VVIP customers to hail cabs from.
So I really hope I get to
VVVVVVVVVIP status one day.
I mean, I just think it’s a very fulfilling
experience, spiritually, I mean,
to wait at least 10 minutes for a cab
just like in the good old days.
In a way, it is also
a silent protest you know,
against the capitalist modern society,
where they are constantly telling you,
they want more of this,
and more of that,
more of this, more of that.
Quicker, faster!
Honestly, at the end of the day,
it’s all about being grateful,
and embracing “less is more”.
But isn’t that an iPhone 7?
Yes, but I also have
2 vintage 2004 Nokias.
Those who are interested in
becoming a part of the community
should delete all taxi apps
from one’s phone,
and then hit the curb
in search of an elusive, un-smart taxi.
Reporting for The Noose,
this is Jojo Joget.
I have no idea why they’re called
smartphones…
if anything, they seem to be making
people more stupid by the day.
Speaking of "stupid",
it seems Singaporeans aren’t just
capable of appreciating good things
created by their fellow countrymen.
It seems that if you
want to make it in Singapore,
you have to be a success overseas first.
Our reporter, Jacques Ooi,
recently met one such fashion designer.
When she was in primary school,
Juraidah Amin’s teachers
never failed to say this
every year in her report book…
She is a dreamer.
I mean, what kind of a remark is
“She’s a day dreamer”?
Did they mean I was an idealist?
Or did they mean to say that
I was day dreaming too much?
Maybe those teachers should have
made their classes more interesting.
Fortunately for Juraidah,
rather than take that
comment as a negative,
her parents encouraged their
only daughter to follow her dreams.
Which she did, pursuing a course
in fashion design
after finishing the 'O' levels.
But for many creative types,
trying to find acceptance
and an audience for their work
proved to be more difficult
than she imagined.
But after 4 years of
dogged perseverance,
she finally hit pay dirt.
A London-based fashion designer
saw a couple of my designs
and offered me a job.
After 2 years of mentoring me,
he helped me with the launch of my
own clothing line called "JUAM".
Because "JUraidah AMin"...so, JUAM.
Everybody thought it was Spanish
and I also kept a low profile,
and just let the clothes
speak for themselves.
The label had a cult following in Europe.
So then, after a while,
I decided to try my luck
back in Singapore
by opening a small boutique.
And rich Singaporeans
fell in love with it,
paying thousands of dollars
for my own dresses.
But with the brand
enjoying wild success,
the press began to ask
questions, such as,
who is behind the success of the label?
When Juraidah finally relented and
did an interview to tell her story,
her sales in Singapore plummeted.
They said, “Why should I pay so much
for something made by a local person?”
My sales plunged by 90 percent.
I even had to close down my boutique
because I couldn’t afford
the rental anymore.
Now, I only have a tiny rack of clothes
in this residential area.
Some say it’s unfair
to paint Singaporeans
as a bunch of snobs
who don’t support local talent,
but it's true, isn’t it?
They point to other home-grown labels
that have enjoyed tremendous success.
So...what gives?
I would attribute this attitude
of all things foreign being good
to globalisation.
You can see this manifest itself
here in Singapore,
in terms of food.
You know, people don’t mind going to
a mid-tier, but crappy restaurant,
and paying $15 for a “pasta”
that has nothing else but
tomato puree and minced beef.
But then, look at the hawker who sells
bak chor mee (minced meat noodle);
it has two times the ingredients
and requires five times
the amount of skill.
Yet when this hawker wants to
increase prices by 50 cents,
everybody screams murder!
It’s so tragic.
Everyone just KPKB.
And there you have it.
This is Jacques Ooi
reporting for The Noose.
Time for a quick breather.
Coming up…
hipsters unveil a new line-up
of zodiac animals
to bring Chinese New Year
into the 21st century.
Stop it.
Hello and welcome back to The Noose.
We’re just two weeks away
from the Lunar New Year,
but many young Singaporeans are
already groaning about the prospect
of having to wear something red
and going through the motions
of celebrating the festivities.
In a bid to modernise
the Lunar New Year celebrations,
the Board of Cultural Management
has come up with
several recommendations,
including a new roster of zodiac animals.
Here’s Andre Chichak with the story.
Gong xi ah gong xi,
(Congratulations ah congratulations)
fa ya fa da chai
(Let’s prosper with lots of money)
Common lyrics to an often-played
Chinese New Year song
that can be heard all over Singapore
from posh shopping centres
to heartland malls,
and even on the radio.
While the older generation
sees these festive tunes
as an uplifting sign that Chinese
New Year is just around the corner,
many young Singaporeans do not
share their enthusiasm for the holiday.
Well, you know what I’m saying?
Like, you know,
like red totally clashes horrendously
with like my skin-tone,
you know, what I’m saying?
Like, everything about this holiday
is totally like red,
you know what I’m saying?
Like, you know,
like the clothes are like red,
like the decorations are like totally red.
Even like, you know,
the money envelopes...
they are like red,
you know what I’m saying, right?
It totally doesn’t even match
the blue notes you are
supposed to get in it.
Right, you know what I’m saying?
I hate my relatives.
In a bid to appeal to millennials
and prevent traditions from dying out,
the Board of Cultural Management
or BOCUM
has put together a taskforce
of well-known social media
personalities and hipster influencers
to make CNY cool again.
The Creative Taskforce of Influencers
aims to make Chinese New Year
a more relatable festival for
young Singaporeans.
After countless meetings
over artisanal coffee,
we’ve come to the conclusion
that the holiday needs
a major overhaul.
For example, red...out,
Rose Quartz is in.
Lion dance...out,
Internet cat dance is in.
But the pièce de résistance
of the entire plan
is to revamp the 12 zodiac signs,
because, come on, let’s face it,
the basic animals are just so lame.
The 12 new proposed animals
for the zodiac are
Cat,
Owl,
Hedgehog,
Fennec Fox,
Koala Bear,
Panda Bear,
Penguin,
Alpaca,
Guinea Pig,
Slow Loris,
Sloth,
and as a tribute to the Bishan 10,
Otter.
The committee has also included a
‘How to Answer Judgey Relatives’ guide,
which includes responses like,
“I’m not married yet because
I look at your spouse
and fear that bad judgement
runs in the family.”
And “Children? Sure!
I’m not ready, but hey,
what’s life without
decades-long resentment?”
No word just yet on whether BOCUM
will accept their recommendations,
but sources say it is likely to go through
as authorities are afraid
that they will be slammed
on social media
if they criticise the proposal.
This is Andre Chichak,
The Noose.
Millennials in the workforce
have become a concern
for many employers.
Referring to those born after 1985,
the millennial generation grew up
with the internet
and adopted extremely
different values
from the previous generation,
some of whom have compared
them to strawberries,
others, to durians.
But as Bertha Haryani finds out,
help is on the way to assist employers
learn about dealing with millennials.
Millennials in the workforce have become
a concern for many employers.
Referring to those born after 1985,
the millennial generation grew up
with the internet
and adopted extremely different
values from the previous generation,
some of whom have compared
them to strawberries,
and others, durians.
Millennial...
they are like the
Liu Sha Bao, or Salted Egg Crab;
they are very interesting,
but, actually, they are not good for
everyday when you are working.
Too heaty, will get sore throat.
They are all idiots, lah.
Who will pay $8 for a cup of coffee?
In my time, $8...you can rent
a four-room flat, you know!
I think, I think, like, you know,
the older generation,
like my parents, your parents,
our teachers, your teachers,
they don’t try to understand us,
and then they think we are dumb,
but we are not dumb.
We care so much about
social issues, you know,
like the inclusiveness, diversiveness,
feminism, millennialism...
all these things.
And then, a lot of other
social issues, like...
impact of Brexit,
American election,
environment,
plastic...
Oh my gosh, Ben is on!
Ben Kheng is on Snapchat.
We have to do this together.
Can I show him?
There is a clear generational gap.
In order to create a workforce
of one united people,
regardless of race, language
or preferred social media platform,
the Ministry of Manpower
is rolling out new courses
to help employers communicate
with millennials.
As the Chief Millennial Officer,
I have done a lot of research
to help civil servants
convey their message
of helping the young-at-heart
reach out to the actually young at heart.
You see, in the past, right,
we have helped the best generation
convey their ideas in ways which
the new generation can understand,
including the MDA rap,
using Gangnam Style for
every single video
that we have produced since 2012,
and we are now preparing
a Pen-Papaya-Apple-Pen video
to talk about including fruits in the diet.
According to Artisanal Lim,
there has been a gulf between how
employers and the government
have been communicating
with the millennials,
leading to a communication breakdown
and generation gap.
This can be improved by tapping
on all things new,
trendy and faddish,
which all the millennials enjoy.
If you think about it, the Five-Step
Mozzie Wipeout is ineffective.
The word "wipe-out",
reminds people of "work-out",
as in the Great Singapore Workout.
And this is considered a rather obiang,
archaic way to communicate, right?
Instead, the NEA should
phrase it in such a way
that millennials can enjoy,
like in a Buzzfeed kind of way.
For example, they can say,
“Twelve Unexpected Places
Water Can Accumulate
and Cause the Breeding of
Dengue-and Zika-spreading Viruses.
Number 2, 5 and 11
is really true for me!"
You see, that way
millennials will actually click and read!
Finally, millennials no longer
want to sing about
"Where the River Always Flows".
Nor do they want to "Chant Mali Chan".
So going forward, all national day songs
will be written and performed by...
get this…
K-pop stars!
And it will come with
full choreography,
so that millennials can dance it at Scape,
even when it is not National Day.
Actually, we have already adopted
several popular anthems for our ministry.
Like, for the Singapore
Kindness movement,
we have adopted
Super Junior’s "Sorry, Sorry"
and the Ministry of Social and
Family Development
will be encouraging families
to have more babies
using Big Bang’s "Fantastic Baby"...
suitable for all small spaces.
This is Bertha Haryani,
reporting for The Noose.
Let's go home!
If you don’t want to see those,
head to toggle.sg/thenoose
to catch up on any past episodes
you might have missed.
We’ll be right back.
Hello and thanks for staying with us
here on the Noose.
The heavy metal band, Metallica,
is due to perform in Singapore
in a month’s time...
their second gig here in 3 years.
And as Jojo Joget finds out,
besides boisterous
and rebellious young adults,
the band also does have some
dedicated followers in high places.
Take my hand
off to never never land!
How can you not like that music?
You are not rock enough.
Call yourself a producer, some more.
Oh, we're ‘on’ already.
One of the most influential
heavy metal bands of all time, Metallica,
is set to return to perform in Singapore
at the Indoor Stadium.
Since the announcement of the concert,
fans around the island
have been professing their love
for Metallica’s music
and the influence it has on their lives.
I’ve been a Metallica fan since 1986!
I have all their albums on vinyl,
way before buying vinyl
was considered cool.
I mean, these youngsters...
they listen to indie these days.
They don’t understand, you know,
they don’t realise
they need music like Metallica
to keep them alive!
They listen to what? Gentle Bones.
We don’t need gentle bones,
we need metal...metal in our blood!
Like my hero, Harry, once said,
whoever governs Singapore
must have that iron in him!
Fans of Metallica and their music
know no boundaries.
But one surprising person
who is a dedicated fan,
is none other than our own
Minister at Large, Esmond Wan.
Actually, I’ve always been
a big fan of the Metallica.
Their music has always
influenced me personally
and shows us how we can run
the government here.
Take for example, their fourth album,
“And Justice for All”.
It is not just an album;
it is also about our judicial system
and how we run our supreme court.
And also, what about “Ride the Lightning”?
That is a personal favourite of my
esteemed colleagues and me.
And it is also a song about riding
the train to work…
if it does not break down.
Then there is also “Master of Puppets”.
That one is a personal favourite
for the party!
Despite the band’s mainstream
success in recent years,
there is a pocket of rock music fans
who are not too excited
by Metallica’s return
to our sunny shores for the third time.
Noisy ah, bro…
I like rock music,
but I like the type of music
where you can, at least,
hear what the singer is singing,
like Bob Marley's “Three Little Birds”.
Their music is so fast and sound like
they are so angry all the time.
That type of music, how to play
when you are trying to romance your
girlfriend at Pasir Ris Park, you tell me?
At least the other bands,
like Scorpion and Whitesnake,
you can still, at least, sing along
and they have rock ballads
where you can play different
cover versions at weddings.
Then you can play
the guitar with feeling.
That is what rock music
is all about…feeling,
not like that...fast and furious.
I bet this bugger thinks
Michael Learns to Rock
is also a hard rock band.
Eh, go relax one corner.
Rock never die, okay.
Reporting for The Noose,
this is Jojo Joget.
I think better go buy a ticket.
And that brings us to the end
of this edition of The Noose.
I’m B.B.See.
And I’m Xin Hua Hua,
just a Master of Puppets.
Good night.
I'm a smooth operator.
Haven't you noticed
I haven't been spitting in my cup
for the last couple of hours?